#### Public README draft

---

# Lifelike

Lifelike is an open source project that aims to provide a simple, yet powerful platform for turning structured and unstructured data from a variety of sources into a single, coherent and explorable knowledge graph.

## Getting started

The easiest way to get started and run a fully functional development environment of Lifelike is to clone this repository and run the `make up` command:

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/SBRG/***ARANGO_DB_NAME***.git
$ cd ***ARANGO_DB_NAME***

$ make up
```

This will take a few minutes to complete, after which you can start using Lifelike by pointing your browser to [http://localhost:4200](http://localhost:4200). You can login with the default admin user `admin@example.com` and password `admin`.

You can run `make help` to see a list of available commands.

```shell
$ make help

usage: make [target]

development:
  githooks                        Set up Git commit hooks for linting and code formatting

docker:
  up                              Build and run container(s) for development. [c=<names>]
  status                          Show container(s) status. [c=<names>]
  logs                            Show container(s) logs. [c=<names>]
  restart                         Restart container(s). [c=<names>]
  stop                            Stop containers(s). [c=<names>]
  exec                            Execute a command inside a container. [c=<name>, cmd=<command>]
  test                            Execute test suite
  down                            Destroy all containers and volumes
  reset                           Destroy and recreate all containers and volumes

other:
  help                            Show this help.
```

### Other installation methods

To deploy Lifelike in a production environment or customize installation, you can see all the available methods described in the [Installation methods](install) section.

## Lifelike main concepts

### Projects

Lifelike organizes content into projects. A project is a filesystem-like collection of resources either uploaded by users or generated by Lifelike based on other resources. Those resources can be all kinds of data, including structured data like spreadhseets, unstructured data like PDF files, images or text documents.

### Knowledge Domains

Lifelike structures knowledge around domains. A domain is a collection of semantically related entities belonging to a field of study.

### Annotations

Annotations are a powerful way to attach context to your data in knowledge Domains, Lifelike automatically annotates all your data with Domain known entities as well as lets you define your own custom annotations.

### Knowledge Graph

Domain data sources are annotated and stored in a graph database. A knowledge graph consist of nodes and edges. Nodes are domain entities and edges are relations between entities.

### Visualizations

Visualizations are a powerful way to help you to understand the relationships between entities as well as a powerful tool to find new relationships as new data comes in.

Lifelike currenty provides the following built-in visualization types:

- Maps
- Enrichment tables
- Sankey diagrams

## Other features

- Multi-user collaborative workbench
- Powerful search engine

## Architecture

Lifelike is a distributed system comprised of the following components:

- Backend appserver and API writen in Python with the Flask framework
- Frontend client application written in Angular
- Statistical enrichment service
- PostgreSQL RDMS
- Neo4j graph database
- Elasticsearch search engine
- PDFParser document parsing library

## License

Lifelike is licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE).
